Your customers aren't finding you the
way they used to. 26% of searches now
[music] end without a click. Instagram
alone sees over 6.5 billion searches
every day. And Chad GPT is about to
launch ads that behave like Facebook,
not Google. So if you're still marketing
like 2024, you're already behind. I'm
Neil Patel, co-founder of NP Digital. My
team works with hundreds of brands
across dozens of industries and every
day we analyze patterns most marketers
never even see. And today I'm going to
walk you through the eight digital
marketing trends that will shape
visibility in 2026 and how to use each
one immediately. Because when you
[music] understand what's actually
happening, you stop reacting and start
leading. Let's dive in. Trend number
one, stop sending traffic off platform.
Capture leads where they are. If you're
still sending social media traffic to
landing pages, you're losing leads
before they ever see your offer. Here's
a real reason. Platforms like Instagram,
LinkedIn, and Facebook kill your
distribution the moment your content
tries to move off platform, even if it's
just click the link in my bio or visit
our site. These platforms want people
inside their ecosystem, not bouncing out
of it. So, the algorithm immediately
throttles your reach and your ad costs
go up. And even when people do click
out, most mobile users drop off the
moment they hit a slow loading form or a
page that isn't built for quick
conversion. Here's what you need to do.
Keep the entire lead capture process
inside the platform. Use tools like
Manyhat to trigger automated
conversations. When someone comments
with the keyword, they comment, the
software automatically sends them DMs,
you capture their information without
them ever leaving the platform. This
reduces friction, boosts engagement
signals to the algorithm, and gives you
higher quality leads because you're
tracking behavioral intent, not just
form fields. Trend two, search moved
beyond Google. For years, search meant
Google. But now, search is happening
everywhere. Instagram, YouTube, Tik Tok,
Chad, GBT, Snap, LinkedIn, even [music]
your browser. Snap signed a $400 million
deal with Perplexity [music] just to
power their search. Buyers are jumping
across platforms like Stepping Stones
and most brands only show up on one of
them. Here's what we're seeing in the
data. Instagram 6.5 billion searches a
day. YouTube over 3 billion. Tik Tok is
becoming [music] a new product search
engine. Chad GBT emerging as a trusted
discovery tool. This isn't random. It's
a clear shift in consumer behavior. And
once you understand the shift, you can
use [music] it to win. This is called
search everywhere optimization. creating
content that's formatted, structured,
and packaged in a way that ranks across
all major discovery surfaces, [music]
not just traditional search engines.
Here's exactly how to do it. Start by
weaving [music] your targeted keywords
naturally into everything. Your script,
your captions, your on-screen text, and
your description. That's how platforms
understand the true topic of your
content. Then build topic clusters.
Create multiple posts around the same
core theme so platforms start mapping
you as the authority. Consistency also
builds discoverability. And finally,
optimize for conversational search.
People now search in full phrases and
the algorithms read the layers of your
content. Audio captions, transcripts,
and visual text to [music] match that
intent. When your content aligns with
how people actually search, you start
showing up everywhere they look. Trend
three, the AI slob problem is hurting
teams more than helping. AI promise
speed, but for most marketing teams,
it's creating [music] confusion, rework,
and hallucinations. We ran a study
comparing free and paid AI tools, and
the hallucination rates were almost
[music] identical. That means people are
trusting answers that look correct, but
are completely wrong. And that false
confidence is killing campaigns. Here's
what's happening. Markers are using AI
to write copy, analyze data, and build
strategy. But they're not validating the
output. They're assuming the AI is right
because it sounds confident. But when
you dig into the data, you find errors,
fake [music] stats, misqued sources,
conclusions that don't match the
evidence. And here's a surprising twist.
A lot of companies are blaming AI for
the layoffs. Not because AI actually
replaced people, but because [music]
it's a cleaner story for the public
markets. Simplifying with AI sounds a
lot better to shareholders than
admitting that they overhired and their
divisions aren't [music] growing at the
pace they are expecting or aren't as
profitable. Meanwhile, inside these
teams, the real inefficiency is coming
from AI slop, hallucinations, errors,
and bad outputs that waste [music]
hours. Even Perplexity CEO said on CNBC,
he doesn't believe AI is [music] the
true reason behind these job losses.
>> The results of that are being seen now.
So, correlation doesn't imply causation.
Like, it's not because of AI that people
are losing jobs. In fact, because of AI,
we see a lot more empowerment in people.
>> So, what do you actually do with all
this? You stop using AI the way everyone
else is using [music] it and start using
it the way top performers do. Top
performers aren't using AI blindly.
They're using AI intelligently. Here's
how. Use AI to generate first drafts,
not final drafts. Cross reference any
stats or claim [music] that AI gives
you. Check the source. Verify the date.
Build internal quality checks. [music]
If something feels off, dig deeper. Use
AI for ideiation, not execution. Let it
help you brainstorm, but don't let it
make strategic decisions without human
[music] oversight. The biggest ROI we're
seeing from AI isn't from tools
themselves. [music] It's from using AI
platforms like Chat GBT as a discovery
channel to drive traffic and
conversions. When you stop using AI to
replace your word and start using it to
extend your reach, you produce work
that's sharper, faster, and way more
accurate. AI doesn't replace your
judgment, it multiplies it. Once you
understand that, you stop feeling
threatened and you start feeling
empowered.
AI tools aren't just answering questions
anymore. They're evolving into full
discovery engines. And just like Google,
they're starting to prioritize trusted
sources. We're seeing clear patterns.
Listicles get cited constantly.
Structured pages get pulled into
answers. Websites [music] with
consistent formatting are showing up
more often. If you publish top 10 lists
across multiple categories, top 10
tools, top 10 agencies, top 10 products,
top 10 comparisons, you start training
Chat GBT to see you as authority. Here's
how the strategy works. Create listicles
in very specific niches. Don't just
publish top 10 digital marketing
agencies. Publish the subcategories, top
10 SAS agencies, top 10 e-commerce
agencies, top 10 affordable marketing
agencies, top 10 agencies for
franchises. The more micro categories
you own, the more Chad GBT cites you as
a source. And no, you shouldn't be
citing yourself. You should be
leveraging digital PR to get other
trusted sources that are authorities in
your field to site you. And you need to
make your case on why you are a better
fit than the competition. And Chad GBT
will eventually build its own authority
system to prevent strategies like people
just blogging on their own website and
saying, "Hey, we're the best." So right
now, you shouldn't focus on shortcuts.
You should focus on long-term strategies
by getting other people in your industry
to talk about you. Yes, it involves
outreach and more work, but it's worth
the effort because then your results
will start compounding. And if you don't
want to do this yourself and you just
want someone to do it for you, my
agency, NP Digital, has a massive
digital PR team with over a 100 people
[music] where we help companies get
listed as the main source and pitch
journalists on why they should be the
best in their industry. Of course, if
you have a crappy product or service,
it's harder for us to do that. But if
you have a good product and a good
service, it's much easier and definitely
doable. All you have to do is just go to
npd digital.com and fill out the form.
Now, if you are creating content on your
own website, make sure you're formatting
it correctly with clear headers, bullet
points, tables. This makes it easy for
AI to extract and site your content.
Keep your content updated. Add last
updated dates to your pages and AI
engines will favor fresh, current
information over old, outdated
information. You also want to use schema
markup. This tells AA engines exactly
what your content is about and makes it
easier to site. You also want to site
yourself strategically within your own
content and mention the products and
services you offer, as well as integrate
case studies, stats, facts, and data
like that to show that you are a
credible source. And when you get cited
by multiple websites that rank you as
one of the top sources in the industry,
this builds authority within the AI
platforms. This makes them want to site
you more than your competition in the
long run, who's just focusing on
creating articles on their own website,
discussing how they're the best source.
This is going to be the new SEO. Almost
no one is doing it. What they're
focusing on is still the old stuff
versus digital PR where it's really at
and that makes the difference. Sure, you
need to still have all the fundamentals,
but without digital PR, you're not going
to do as well on Chad GPT, Perplexity,
or even Gemini. [music] And when you
understand that Chad GPT is becoming a
ranking system, your content strategy
immediately becomes more intentional,
more strategic, and far more profitable.
Trend five, AI ads will behave like
Facebook with Google level intent. When
Chad GBT launches ads, they won't work
like Google search ads. They will target
you based on your full search history,
your intent over time, your interests,
your patterns, your problems, your
goals. This is identity based targeting
with search level accuracy. If you
search for marketing agencies, Chad GPT
could show you an ad for a marketing
agency. But if nine of your last 10
searches were about losing weight, Chad
GBT might show you a weight loss ad
instead because that's what's actually
top of mind for you right now. They're
not just responding to what you type.
They're responding to your deeper intent
across everything you've been searching.
And look at who Open AI is hiring.
Former Facebook and Instagram ad
engineers, people who specialize in
predictive modeling and behavior-based
targeting. Google shows you ads based on
what you type. Facebook shows you ads
based [music] on who you are. Chat GBT
will do both. This means one thing.
Brands that define their category early
will have the advantage of being the
default recommendation inside AI
platforms. You no longer are competing
for keywords. You're competing for
associations. And here's how you
position yourself now. Build topical
authority. Create content that is
consistently addresses specific problems
for specific audiences. The more you
publish on a topic, the more AI
associates your brand with that
category. You also want to use
firstparty data. Integrate your CRM,
purchase history, and customer
interactions into your ad platforms.
This trains AI systems to understand who
your best customers are. You want to
create content that teaches AI who you
help. Don't just say we're a marketing
agency. Say we help SAS companies scale
from 1 million to 10 million through
performance marketing. The specificity
trains the AI. Once you understand that,
you stop creating random content and you
start creating content that teaches AI
exactly who you are and who you help.
Trend six, browsers are becoming AI
platforms. This is one of the biggest
changes [music] coming in 2026 and one
of the least discussed. A is moving into
browser layer, not just website layer.
Chrome's Gemini, Chad GPT's Atlas,
Perplexes Comet. Right now, we go to
Chad GPT, we go to Google, we go to
different platforms, but [music] that's
changing. Think of a browser like an
app. Once you're inside it, they keep
you there and they can monetize you
without sending you to [music] websites
first. Imagine this. Your customer opens
a tab and asks the browser to compare
tools. The browser summarizes
everything, makes recommendations, and
shows [music] AIdriven ads before they
even reach a website. This is the future
of discovery. Browsers are becoming the
new platform instead of forcing people
to go to websites. AI inside the browser
pulls information directly from your
[music] site and shows it to users
instantly. And Google is already
preparing for this. Their new AI Mac
campaigns are designing [music] to show
ads across every Google surface, search,
YouTube, discover, and soon inside
Chrome's AI features. [music] So, in the
future, your ads won't just show up on
Google's platforms. They'll show up
inside the browser itself while people
are using AI tools to research, compare,
and make decisions. That's why marketers
need to prepare now. Start running AMAX
campaigns early so you can understand
how the system optimizes, and learns.
Add structured data to your website,
schema markup, clean formatting, and
clear sections so browsers can easily
extract, summarize, and [music] surface
your content. Treat your site as a data
source, not just a destination. the
browser will pull from it even if users
never click through. Trend seven, live
content is becoming a competitive
advantage. In a world full of AI
generated everything, the one thing
people trust most is real people. And
that's why live video is exploding.
YouTube reports that nearly 30% of users
watch at least one live every week. And
very few brands are going live. People
are craving live content, but creators
and brands aren't delivering it. When
you go live regularly, something
powerful happens. Your audience sees you
as a human. Your engagement spikes, your
organic reach expands, your content
multiplies because one live stream can
become dozens of clips. And here's one
thing that gets really interesting.
YouTube now autogenerates both
horizontal and vertical clips from your
live streams. You can go live once
[music] on desktop and the platform
creates vertical versions for mobile
automatically. You create once and the
platform repurposes it for you. Here's
how to use this. Go live once a week. It
doesn't have to be fancy. Just show up
and add value. Teach something, answer
questions, break down recent trend, walk
through a case study. Let the platform
do the work. YouTube handles the
formatting, you handle the value.
Repurpose strategically. Pull out the
best 60-second moments and turn them
into shorts, reals, and Tik Toks.
Platforms are rewarding authenticity,
not polish. And once you lean into that,
your brand stops feeling like content
and starts feeling like leadership. This
is where your audience begins to trust
you deeply.
For the first time in history, [music]
language is no longer a barrier. YouTube
and tools like Hey Gen can now autodub
your videos into dozens of languages
using your own voice. And over time,
[music] all platforms will do this. And
you won't even need tools like Hey Jen.
This means your next video isn't limited
to one country. [music] It can reach the
entire world instantly. Your reach is no
longer just English [music] speakers.
It's Hindi speakers, Korean speakers,
Spanish speakers, everyone. And here's
what we're seeing. Creators are getting
30 to 50% of their views from languages
they don't even speak. Brands are
expanding into new markets without
hiring translators or voice actors.
[music] Here's how to activate this.
Enable multilanguage audio on YouTube.
It's in your video settings. Turn it on
for every video you publish. You also
want to optimize your website for global
traffic. Use [music] HF lang tags. Add
language selectors. Make sure your
checkout process supports multiple
languages. Localize your CTAs. If
someone's [music] watching in Spanish,
make sure your landing page supports
Spanish, too. This shift transforms
creators into global brands. [music] And
once you experience global distribution,
your mindset changes. You stop thinking
in terms of views and you start thinking
in [music] terms of world reach. This
unlocks the biggest psychological driver
of all expansion. Not just of your
content, but of your ambition. If you
want to go deeper into how AI search
really works, watch my next video.
[music] This will walk you through how
to get surfaced, how to get recommended,
and how to stay visible inside every
major platform.